# Toronto Machine Learning Conference & Expo 2019

## Talk Proposal

Email: garrett@guild.ai

Name: Garrett Smith

Company: Guild AI

Location: Chicago

About the speaker:

Garrett Smith is an independent consultant specializing in machine
learning application and program development. He has over 25 years
experience in software and systems engineering. Garrett is the founder
Chicago ML, a 3500 member organization of machine learning
practitioners, researchers, and students. He is a frequent teacher,
speaker, and event organizer in support of best-practices in applied
machine learning and AI.

Garrett is the creator of Guild AI, an open source toolkit for
running, tracking and comparing machine learning experiments. Guild AI
is used by machine learning developers to rapidly improve their models
through automated training and testing.

Prior to his work in machine learning, Garrett ran operations for
CloudBees Java Platform as a Service. There he built back-end systems
responsible for thousands of business critical applications and
databases in a high availability, high performance environment.

Garrett uses Python in his machine learning work but looks forward to
the day he can resume use of his favorite language, Erlang.

Ideal talk format: Talk

Talk track: ML in Production: Implementation, Tooling & Engineering, Data/ML Ops

---

Talk title: Applying Open Source Development Workflows to Machine
Learning

Abstract:

Data science and software engineering functions in machine learning
projects are often separate. This presents a challenge for
organizations building ML-enabled applications. How can data
scientists and engineers most efficiently work together? In this talk,
Garrett Smith considers how successful open source workflows can be
applied to machine learning. He presents the now ubiquitous Fork and
Pull and Shared Repository models and identifies the underlying
mechanics that apply to machine learning. He discuses shared software
artifacts, reproducibility, automated training and testing, experiment
tracking, and collaboration using pull requests. He shows the central
role of data governance, automation, and standardized protocols in the
development of an organization's ML capabilities. If your organization
wants to bridge the gap between data science and engineering
functions, this talk presents a road map methods and lessons from the
vibrant and stunningly successful ecosystem of open source software.

Have you given this talk before? No

What are some of the the infrastructure you plan to discuss? This is
not an infrastructure talk, however, I will discuss source code
repositories and automation tools.

What are some of the languages you plan to discuss? I will mention
Python, but the talk is language agnostic.

What kind of Dev ops tools you plan to discuss? Open source? The talk
focuses on open source, but less on specific tools and more on
concepts and methods that can be used to streamline data science and
engineering collaboration.

What does this product (if specific) or implementation achieve? This
is not a product focused talk.

Is there anything else you' d like to add?

---

Who is this presentation for? Senior Business Executives, Product
managers, Data Scientists, ML Engineers and Researchers

Audience Level:
- Beginner
- Intermediate
- Advanced
- Business

Pre-requisite Knowledge: None - I explain each concept covered.

What you'll learn:

You'll learn how to remove barriers between science and engineering
roles with actionable steps addressing project structure, software
artifacts, and automation techniques. Some advice is commonly known
while some defies conventional wisdom.

If selected would you like speaker coaching or slide presentation
assistance? Yes

Would you, or your company also like information about exhibiting or
sponsoring? No

Are you OK with the talk being recorded? Yes

Would you be interested in participating in a podcast for
TowardsDataScience.com? Yes

## Workshop Proposal

Email: garrett@guild.ai

Name: Garrett Smith

Company: Guild AI

Location: Chicago

About the speaker:

Garrett Smith is an independent consultant specializing in machine
learning application and program development. He has over 25 years
experience in software and systems engineering. Garrett is the founder
Chicago ML, a 3500 member organization of machine learning
practitioners, researchers, and students. He is a frequent teacher,
speaker, and event organizer in support of best-practices in applied
machine learning and AI.

Garrett is the creator of Guild AI, an open source toolkit for
running, tracking and comparing machine learning experiments. Guild AI
is used by machine learning developers to rapidly improve their models
through automated training and testing.

Prior to his work in machine learning, Garrett ran operations for
CloudBees Java Platform as a Service. There he built back-end systems
responsible for thousands of business critical applications and
databases in a high availability, high performance environment.

Garrett uses Python in his machine learning work but looks forward to
the day he can resume use of his favorite language, Erlang.

Ideal talk format: Workshop

Talk track: ML in Production: Implementation, Tooling & Engineering, Data/ML Ops

---

Talk title: Clean Coding for Machine Learning Projects

Abstract:

Data scientists and software engineers collaborate to build ML-enabled
applications. Their work centers on the software that implements
learning algorithms and automates model development pipelines. As with
any software centered work, code quality is a major factor in the
performance and cost of such projects. What are best practices for
writing this code? In this workshop, Garrett Smith teaches fundamental
principles of writing clean code for machine learning projects. Topics
include programming abstractions such as Notebooks, modules, command
line scripts, functions, and classes. Garrett also covers
methodologies for testing, logging, debugging, and error
handling. Students will learn best practices in the context of a
complete ML pipeline with data preparation, training, testing, and
deployment stages. The workshop uses the Python programming language
for coding examples. Principles can be applied to other languages such
as R, Julia, and JavaScript.

Have you given this talk before? Yes

What are some of the the infrastructure you plan to discuss? Not
applicable

What are some of the languages you plan to discuss? The workshop is
taught using Python.

What kind of Dev ops tools you plan to discuss? Open source? The
workshop requires Jupyter Notebooks, a text editor, and a Python
interpreter with scikit-learn.

What does this product (if specific) or implementation achieve? Not
applicable

Is there anything else you' d like to add?

---

Who is this presentation for? Data Scientists, ML Engineers and
Researchers

Audience Level:
- Basic
- Intermediate
- Advanced

Pre-requisite Knowledge: Students should be familiar with
Python. Knowledge of machine learning is not required for this
workshop.

What you'll learn: Students will learn best practices for writing
clean code for machine learning projects. Clean code has fewer bugs
and is easier to test and maintain. Clean code improves the outcome
and long term viability of machine learning projects.

If selected would you like speaker coaching or slide presentation
assistance? Yes

Would you, or your company also like information about exhibiting or
sponsoring? No

Are you OK with the talk being recorded? Yes

Would you be interested in participating in a podcast for
TowardsDataScience.com? Yes
